We are gonna do some tree traversals,
I promise these are like
a million times easier so
you can kinda rest easy for a second.
Again, that AVL tree is the most difficult
thing that you're gonna learn in this
course.
So if you survived this far,
you're over the crest of the mountain now,
it's all downhill from here.
So let's talk about traversals.
And these actually end up being
kind of important just in general,
with traversing graphs and
traversing paths, and mazes, and
trees, and all that kind of stuff.
So let's talk about a tree traversal.
So a tree traversal in this particular
case, imagine I gave you this tree,
I just handed it to you and said,
I want an array of all the numbers
in this array or in this tree.
How would you do that?
There's a couple ways of doing it, and
these are called traversals, right?
So let's say I gave you this binary
search tree, and I wanted everything.
Just I don't care what
order they come back in.
Just give me all of the numbers
that exist in the array.
You could do what's called
a pre-order traversal,
which is I'm gonna give you 8,
3, 1, 6, 4, 7, 10, 14, 13.
So basically, just the order that
you visit all the nodes in, right?
So since I start on the root node,
I'm going to give you 8 first,
then I'm gonna go to the left child and
I'm gonna give you 3.
Then I'm gonna the left child and
I always go to the left first then right.
Then I give you 6, then 4, then 7,
then 10, then 14, then 13.
So this is called depth first
traversal because we're going
as deep as we can first.
And you can see here again
using this tree up here,
we call the method we'll call it
pre-order traversal on the root node 8.
We add 8 to the array, then we call
pre-order traverse on the left child 3,
we add 3 to our array.
We call pre-order traversal on
the left child 1 just here, right?
Maybe I can zoom out a bit so you can
maybe see a little bit of what's going on.
So 1 has no children so
you return up to here, and
since we're doing this recursively,
then we're going to process 6 next, right?
And so on and so forth until you
process everything in the array.
That's called pre-order traversal,
and you'll end up with this
this array here 8, 3,
1, 6, 4, 7, 10, 14, 13.
If I'm asking you for just every number
in the array, that's great, right?
That's you successfully fulfilled
everything that I'm looking for.
Now, given this as a binary search tree,
what if I wanted everything
in numerical order?
So I want 1, 3, 4, 6, 7,
8, 10,13, 14, how would you do that?
Well honestly,
it's the same thing basically,
we just changed when we
add numbers to the array.
So what we're gonna do is we're
going to go as far left as we can.
So I'm gonna do call post, or this is
gonna be called in-order traversal.
I'm gonna call in-order traversal on 8,
then I'm gonna call in-order traversal on
3, I'm gonna call it
in-order traversal on 1.
1 has no left child, so
I add 1 to the array then I return.
Then I add 3 to the array, and then I
call in-order traversal on the right.
So the only thing that's changing here is
when I add the item to the array, right?
Same exact logic go left, then go right.
But with pre-order traversal,
it's add to the array, go left, go right.
If it's in-order to reversal,
it's go left, add to the array, go right.
And then as you might imagine,
there is a post-order traversal,
which is go left, go right,
add to the array.
And just to demonstrate the difference.
Pre-order traversal gives you that number,
in-order traversal gives you these
numbers, and then post-order where
I'm adding everything after I visit
both the left and right child is this.
So with post-order, always your
route will just be last, right?
Because that's the first
thing that you call it with
So, Why are we learning three different
ways of doing the same thing?
It's a good question you might ask.
If you want a sorted list out of an array,
you're gonna use in-order traversal.
If you wanted to make a deep
copy of a tree, right?
So if I gave you this tree and said, hey,
I want a copy of this,
how would you do that?
In this case, pre-order traversal
is really helpful because you can
create a new node and
then add the children.
So deep copies,
you'd probably use a pre-order traversal.
And then post-order would be great if
you're trying to actually delete all
the items in the array.
Because what you'd wanna do is you want to
visit both children, delete all of them,
and then delete the node itself,
and then return, right?
So post-order traversal would be something
you'd probably do with a deletion.